README.md, before:

# training

Bronze ingestion scaffold for Databricks (Unity Catalog `dev` catalog).

## Structure
- `data/`: place raw source files/folders here locally.
- `pipelines/workspace_files/bronze_ingest.py`: notebook/script that ingests files into Bronze Delta tables.
- `resources/bronze_ingest_job.yml`: Databricks Job definition.
- `scripts/upload_data_to_volume.sh`: uploads local `data/` files to UC volume storage.

## Bronze target
- Catalog: `dev`
- Schema: `bronze`
- Source volume path: `/Volumes/dev/bronze/raw/data`
- Output tables: `dev.bronze.<folder_based_table_name>`

## Run
1. Validate and deploy bundle:
```bash
databricks bundle validate -t dev --profile <profile>
databricks bundle deploy -t dev --profile <profile>
```

2. Upload local files from repo `data/`:
```bash
./scripts/upload_data_to_volume.sh <profile> dev bronze data
```

3. Run Bronze job:
```bash
databricks bundle run bronze_ingest -t dev --profile <profile>
```

## Notes
- The ingestion script auto-discovers leaf folders under the source root and creates one Bronze table per leaf folder.
- Defaults assume CSV (`header=true`, `infer_schema=true`). Override notebook parameters in the job if your files are JSON/Parquet.

Commit message:

Map codex/dev to dev catalog and main to prod catalog

README.md, after:

# training

Bronze ingestion scaffold for Databricks with branch-based releases.

## Structure
- `data/`: place raw source files/folders here locally.
- `pipelines/workspace_files/bronze_ingest.py`: notebook/script that ingests files into Bronze Delta tables.
- `resources/bronze_ingest_job.yml`: Databricks Job definition.
- `scripts/upload_data_to_volume.sh`: uploads local `data/` files to UC volume storage.

## Release mapping
- `codex/dev` branch deploys bundle target `dev` and writes to `dev.bronze.*`.
- `main` branch deploys bundle target `prod` and writes to `prod.bronze.*`.

## Bronze target
- Schema: `bronze`
- Source volume path pattern: `/Volumes/<catalog>/bronze/raw/data`
- Output tables: `<catalog>.bronze.<folder_based_table_name>`

## Run
1. Validate and deploy bundle:
```bash
databricks bundle validate -t dev --profile <profile>
databricks bundle deploy -t dev --profile <profile>
# or for prod:
databricks bundle validate -t prod --profile <profile>
databricks bundle deploy -t prod --profile <profile>
```

2. Upload local files from repo `data/`:
```bash
./scripts/upload_data_to_volume.sh <profile> dev bronze data
# or for prod:
./scripts/upload_data_to_volume.sh <profile> prod bronze data
```

3. Run Bronze job:
```bash
databricks bundle run bronze_ingest -t dev --profile <profile>
# or for prod:
databricks bundle run bronze_ingest -t prod --profile <profile>
```

## Notes
- The ingestion script auto-discovers leaf folders under the source root and creates one Bronze table per leaf folder.
- Defaults assume CSV (`header=true`, `infer_schema=true`). Override notebook parameters in the job if your files are JSON/Parquet.
